# Ch15 Move semantics and smart pointers

## 15.1 Intro to smart pointers and move semantics

A **Smart pointer** is a composition class that is ***designed to manage dynamically allocated memory*** and ensure that memory gets deleted when the smart pointer object goes out of scope. (Relatedly, built-in pointers are sometimes called “dumb pointers” because they can’t clean up after themselves).

### Move semantics

What if, instead of having our copy constructor and assignment operator copy the pointer (“copy semantics”), we instead transfer/move ownership of the pointer from the source to the destination object? This is the core idea behind move semantics.

- **Move semantics** means the class will transfer ownership of the object rather than making a copy.

## 15.2 R-value references

### L-values and r-values

It’s simplest to think of an **l-value** (also called a  locator value) as a function or an object (or an expression that  evaluates to a function or object). ***All l-values have assigned memory addresses***.

It’s simplest to think of an **r-value** as “everything  that is not an l-value”. This notably includes literals (e.g. 5),  temporary values (e.g. x+1), and anonymous objects (e.g. Fraction(5,  2)).

- r-values are typically evaluated for their values, have expression scope (they die at the end of the expression they are in), and cannot be assigned to.
- This non-assignment rule makes sense, because assigning a value applies a side-effect to the object. Since r-values have expression scope, if we were to assign a value to an r-value, then the r-value would either go out of scope before we had a chance to use the  assigned value in the next expression (which makes the assignment  useless) or we’d have to use a variable with a side effect applied more than once in an expression (which by now you should know causes  undefined behavior!).

### R-value references

C++11 adds a new type of reference called an r-value reference.

- An r-value reference is a reference that is designed to be initialized with an r-value (only).
- While an l-value reference is created using a single ampersand, an ***r-value reference is created using a double ampersand***:

```c++
int x{5};
int &lref{ x };
int &&rref{ 5 };
```

***R-value references have two properties that are useful***.

- First, r-value references extend the lifespan of the object they are initialized with to the lifespan of the r-value reference (l-value references to const objects can do this too).
- Second, ***non-const r-value references allow you to modify the r-value!***

### R-value references as function parameters

***R-value references are more often used as function parameters***. This is  most useful for function overloads when you want to have different  behavior for l-value and r-value arguments.

```c++
void func(const int &lref) {
    std::cout << "l-value reference to const\n";
}

void fun(int &&ref) {
    std::cout << "r-value reference\n";
}

int main() {
    int x{5};
    fun(x);	// l-value argument
    fun(5); // r-value argument
    
    return 0;
}
```

quiz

```c++
int &ref{5}; // cannot compile
const int& ref{5} // can compile
```

## 15.3 Move constructors and move assignment

### Move constructors and move assignment

The goal of the move constructor and move assignment is to move ownership of the resources from one object to - another (which is typically much less expensive than making a copy).

- The move constructor and move assignment operator are simple. Instead of deep copying the source object (a) into the implicit object, ***we simply move (steal) the source object’s resources***. This involves shallow copying the source pointer into the implicit object, then setting the source pointer to null.

### When are the move constructor and move assignment called?

The move constructor and move assignment are called when those functions have been defined, and the argument for construction or assignment is an r-value. Most typically, this r-value will be a literal or temporary value.

In most cases, a move constructor and move assignment operator will not be provided by default, unless the class does not have any defined copy constructors, copy assignment, move assignment, or destructors. However, the default move constructor and move assignment do the same thing as the default copy constructor and copy assignment (make copies,  not do moves).

>  ***Rule: If you want a move constructor and move assignment that do moves, you’ll need to write them yourself.***

## 15.4 std::move

In C++11, std::move is a standard library function that serves a single purpose -- ***to convert its argument into an r-value***. We can pass an l-value to std::move, and it will return an r-value reference. std::move is defined in the utility header.

## 15.5 std::unique_ptr

***Smart pointers should never be dynamically allocated themselves (otherwise, there is the risk that the smart pointer may not be properly deallocated, which means the object it owns would not be deallocated, causing a memory leak)***.

- 스마트포인터는 힙(동적 할당)에 할당하는게 아니라 스택에 할당 함.
- By always allocating smart pointers on the stack (as local variables or composition members of a class), we’re  guaranteed that the smart pointer will properly go out of scope when the function or object it is contained within ends, ensuring the object the smart pointer owns is properly deallocated.

### std::unique_ptr

std::unique_ptr is the C++11 replacement for std::auto_ptr.  It should  be used to manage any dynamically allocated object that is not shared by multiple objects. ***That is, std::unique_ptr should completely own the  object it manages, not share that ownership with other classes***. std::unique_ptr lives in the \<memory> header.

### std::make_unique

Use of std::make_unique() is optional, but is recommended over creating  std::unique_ptr yourself.  This is because code using std::make_unique  is simpler, and it also requires less typing (when used with automatic  type deduction).  Furthermore it resolves an exception safety issue that can result from C++ leaving the order of evaluation for function  arguments unspecified.

***Rule: use std::make_unique() instead of creating std::unique_ptr and using new yourself***

## 15.6 std::shared_ptr

Unlike std::unique_ptr, which is designed to singly own and manage a resource, std::shared_ptr is meant to solve the case where you need multiple smart pointers co-owning a resource.

***Rule: Always make a copy of an existing std::shared_ptr if you need more than one std::shared_ptr pointing to the same resource***.

### std::make_shared

