# Ch06 Object Scope and Conversions

## 6.6 Internal linkage

An identifier with internal linkage can be seen and used within a single file, but it is not accessible from other files (that is, it is not exposed to the linker).

- ***This means that if two files have identically named identifiers with internal linkage, those identifiers will be treated as independent***.
- Internal linkage라면 같은 이름도 파일별로 구분 됨
- 전역 변수 같은 경우는 global external linkage

### Global variables with internal linkage

Global variables with internal linkage are sometimes called internal variables. To make a non-constant global variable internal, we use the `static` keyword.

- 전역변수를 internal linkage로 만드는 방법 -> `static` 사용

```c++
static int g_x;

const int g_y { 1 };
constexpr int g_z { 2 };

int main()
{
    return 0;
}
```

- `const` and `constexpr` global variables have internal linkage by default (and thus don’t need the `static` keyword -- if it is used, it will be ignored).
- `const` 와 `constexpr`이 전역변수로 사용 될 경우 static 없이도 internal linkage가 됨
- Functions default to external linkage, but can be set to internal linkage via the `static` keyword

## 6.7 External linkage

An identifier with external linkage can be seen and used both from the file in which it is defined, and from other code files (via a forward declaration).

- In this sense, identifiers with external linkage are truly “global” in that they can be used anywhere in your program!

### Global variables with external linkage

Global variables with external linkage are sometimes called external variables. To make a global variable external (and thus accessible by other files), we can use the `extern` keyword to do so:

```c++
int g_x { 2 };
extern const int g_y { 3 };
extern constexpr int g_z { 3 };

int main()
{
    return 0;
}
```

### Variable forward declarations via the extern keyword

To actually use an external global variable that has been defined in another file, you also must place a `forward declaration` for the global variable in any other files wishing to use the variable.

- For variables, creating a forward declaration is also done via the `extern` keyword (with no initialization value).

Note that the `extern` keyword has different meanings in different contexts.

- In some contexts, `extern` means “give this variable external linkage”.
- In other contexts, `extern` means “this is a forward declaration for an external variable that is defined somewhere else”.

> ***Warninig***
>
> If you want to define an uninitialized non-const global variable, do not use the extern keyword, otherwise C++ will think you’re trying to make a forward declaration for the variable.
>
> - non-const 전역 변수를 만들때 extern을 붙이면  linker는 forward declaration을 찾으려 함

### File scope vs. global scope

Technically, in C++, *all* global variables have “file scope”, and the linkage property controls whether they can be used in other files or not.

- 기본적으로 전역변수는 선언된 파일 내부에서만 사용 가능. 하지만 다른 파일에서 extern을 붙이면 global scope로 사용 가능

```c++
int g_x; // variable definition (can have initializer if desired)
extern int g_x; // forward declaration (no initializer)

extern const int g_y { 1 }; // variable definition
extern const int g_y; // forward declaration
extern constexpr int g_y // not allowed: constexpr variables cannot be forward declared
const int g_y { 2 }; // defines initiazlied internal global const variable
```

- 전역 변수 선언하면 global scope -> 다른 파일에서 extern 붙여서 불러올 수 있음
- 전역 변수에 static 붙으면 다른 파일에서 extern 붙여도 못불러옴

However, informally, ***the term “file scope” is more often applied to global variables with internal linkage***, and ***“global scope” to global variables with external linkage*** (since they can be used across the whole program, with the appropriate forward declarations).

### The initialization order problem of global variables

Initialization of global variables happens as part of program startup, before execution of the `main` function. This proceeds in two phases.

- The first phase is called `static initialization`. In the static initialization phase, global variables with constexpr  initializers (including literals) are initialized to those values. Also, global variables without initializers are zero-initialized.
- The second phase is called `dynamic initialization`.  This phase is more complex and nuanced, but the gist of it is that global variables with non-constexpr initializers are initialized.

### Quiz

What’s the difference between a variable’s scope, duration, and linkage? What kind of scope, duration, and linkage do global variables have?

- Scope determines where a variable is accessible.
- Duration determines where a variable is created and destroyed.
- Linkage determines whether the variable can be exported to another file or not.
- Global variables have global scope (aka. file scope), which means they can be accessed from the point of declaration to the end of the file in which they are declared.
- Global variables have static duration, which means they are created when the program is started, and destroyed when it ends.
- Global variables can have either internal or external linkage, via the `static` and `extern` keywords respectively.

## 6.8 Global constants and inline variables

### Global constants as inline variables

C++17 introduced a new concept called `inline variables`. In C++, the term `inline` has evolved to mean “multiple definitions are allowed”.

- Thus, an inline variable is one that is allowed to be defined in multiple files without violating the one definition rule. ***Inline global variables have external linkage by default***.

## 6.10 Static local variables

### Static local variables

Using the `static` keyword on a local variable changes its duration from `automatic duration` to `static duration`.  

- This means the variable is now created at the start of the program, and destroyed at the end of the program (just like a global variable).
- As a result, the static variable will retain its value even after it goes out of scope!
- One of the most common uses for static duration local variables is for unique ID generators. 

> Best practice
>
> Avoid `static` local variables unless the variable never needs to be reset. `static` local variables decrease reusability and make functions harder to reason about.

## 6.10 Summary

### Linkage summary

Linkage summary

An identifier’s *linkage* determines whether multiple declarations of an identifier refer to the same identifier or not.

- An identifier with **no linkage** means the identifier only refers to itself.  This includes:

- - Local variables
  - User-defined type definitions (such as enums and classes) declared inside a block

- An identifier with **internal linkage** can be accessed anywhere within the file it is declared.  This includes:

- - Static global variables (initialized or uninitialized)
  - Static functions
  - ***Const global variables***
  - Functions declared inside an unnamed namespace
  - User-defined type definitions (such as enums and classes) declared inside an unnamed namespace

- An identifier with **external linkage** can be accessed anywhere within the file it is declared, or other files (via a forward declaration).  This includes:

- - Functions
  - Non-const global variables (initialized or uninitialized)
  - ***Extern const global variables***
  - Inline const global variables
  - User-defined type definitions (such as enums and classes) declared inside a namespace or in the global scope

## 6.13 Typedefs and type aliases

### Type aliases

```c++
typedef double distance_t
```

It can be declared as the following type aliase:

```c++
using distance_t = double;
```

- This type alias syntax is cleaner for more advanced typedefing cases, and should be preferred.

### Using type aliases for easier code maintenance

Type aliases also allow you to change the underlying type of an object without having to change lots of code. For example, if you were using a `short` to hold a student’s ID number, but then later decided you needed a `long` instead, you’d have to comb through lots of code and replace `short` with `long`. 

## 6.14 The auto keyword

### Type inference for functions

```c++
auto add(int x, int y)
{
    return x + y
}
```

- While this may seem neat, ***we recommend that this syntax be avoided for normal functions***.
- The return type of a function is of great use in helping to document for the caller what a function is expected to  return.
- When a specific type isn’t specified, the caller may misinterpret what type the function will return, which can lead to  inadvertent errors.

> Best practice
>
> Avoid using type inference for function return types.

### Trailing return type syntax

When return type is too long,

```c++
auto add(int x, int y) -> int
{
    return (x + y);
}
```

## 6.15 Implicit type conversion (coercion(강제))

Implicit type conversion (also called automatic type conversion or coercion) is performed whenever one data type is expected, but a different data type is supplied. If the compiler can figure out how to do the  conversion between the two types, it will.  If it doesn’t know how, then it will fail with a compile error.

All of the above examples are cases where `implicit type conversion` will be used.

- Whenever a value from one fundamental ***data type is converted into a value of a larger fundamental data type from the same family***, this is called a ***numeric promotion*** (or widening, though this term is usually reserved for integers). -> 작은거에서 큰걸로 -> 데이터 손실 위험 없음
  - For example, an `int` can be widened into a `long`, or a `float` promoted into a `double`
- When we convert a value ***from a larger type to a similar smaller type, or between different types***, this is called a ***numeric conversion***. -> 큰거에서 작은걸로 -> 데이터 손실 위험 있음

## 6.16 Explicit type conversion (casting) and static_cast

### Type casting

In C++, there are 5 different types of casts: `C-style casts`, `static casts`, `const casts`, `dynamic casts`, and `reinterpret casts`. The latter four are sometimes referred to as named casts.

- `Const casts` and `reinterpret casts` should generally be avoided because they are only useful in rare cases and can be harmful if used incorrectly.

### C-style casts

```c++
int i1 { 10 };
int i2 { 4 };
float f { (float)i1 / i2 };
```

- `C-style casts` are at risk for being inadvertently misused, and not producing the expected behavior, something which is easily avoidable by using the C++ casts instead.

### static_cast

```c++
char c{'a'}
std::cout << ' ' << static_cast<int>(c) << '\n'; // print 97
```

- The main advantage of `static_cast` is that it provides compile-time type checking, making it harder to make an inadvertent error. 

## 6.17 Unnamed and inline namespaces

### Unnamed (anoymous) namespaces

All content declared in an `unnamed namespace` is treated as if it is part of the parent namespace. 

- This might make `unnamed namespaces` seem useless.
- But the other effect of `unnamed namespaces` is that all identifiers inside an `unnamed namespace` are treated as if they had `internal linkage`, which means that the content of an `unnamed namespace` can’t be seen outside of the file in which the `unnamed namespace` is defined.
- `Unnamed namespaces` are typically used when you have a lot of content that you want to ensure stays local to a given file, ***as it’s easier to cluster such content in an `unnamed namespace` than individually mark all declarations as `static`***. 

-> Inline 쓰는 이유 : 함수와 전역 변수는는 기본적으로 global scope인데 file scope로 쓰고 싶을 경우 inline 사용

- c++17에서 헤더 파일에 인라인으로 const 정의 할 경우 헤더 파일 안에서 이니셜라이제이션 해야함.
- 17 이전에는 인라인이 없고 헤더에서 정의하고 cpp에서 이니셜라이제이션 했음
  - 인라인 있으면 파일 스코프가 돼서 cpp에서 이니셜라이제이션 할 수 없기 때문에 인라인 안쓴것? -> 일관성은 있는듯
  - 근데 헤더파일 인클루드 하면 인라인도 쓸 수 있긴 한데;;