# Ch0

## 0.5 Introduction to the compiler, linker, and libraries

### Compiling your source code

In order to compile a C++ program, we use a C++ compiler. The C++ compiler sequentially goes through each source code (.cpp) file in your program and does two important tasks:

- First, it checks your code to make sure it follows the rules of the  C++ language. If it does not, the compiler will give you an error (and  the corresponding line number) to help pinpoint what needs fixing. The compilation process will also be aborted until the error is fixed.
- Second, ***it translates your C++ source code into a machine language file called an object file***. Object files are typically named *name.o* or *name.obj*, where *name* is the same name as the .cpp file it was produced from.

### Linking object files and libraries

The job of the linker is three fold:

- First, to ***take all the object files generated by the compiler and combine them into a single executable program***.
- Second, in addition to being able to link object files, the linker also is capable of linking library files. A library file is a collection of precompiled code that has been “packaged up” for reuse in other programs.
- Third, the linker makes sure all cross-file dependencies are resolved properly.
  -  For example, if you define something in one .cpp file, and  then use it in another .cpp file, the linker connects the two together. If the linker is unable to connect a reference to something with its  definition, you’ll get a linker error, and the linking process will  abort.

Once the linker is finished linking all the object files and libraries (assuming all goes well), you will have an executable file that you can then run!

## 0.9 Configuring your compiler: Build configurations

The ***debug configuration*** is designed to help you debug your program, and is generally the one you will use when writing your programs. This configuration turns off all optimizations, and includes debugging information, which makes your programs larger and slower, but much easier to debug. The debug configuration is usually selected as the active configuration by default. We’ll talk more about debugging techniques in a later lesson.

The ***release configuration*** is designed to be used when releasing your program to the public. This version is typically optimized for size and performance, and doesn’t contain the extra debugging information. Because the release  configuration includes all optimizations, this mode is also useful for testing the performance of your code (which we’ll show you how to do later in the tutorial series).