# Ch08 Basic Object-oriented programming

## 8.2 Classes and class members

### A note about structs in C++

In C, structs can only hold data, and do not have associated member functions. In C++, after designing classes (using the class keyword), Bjarne Stroustrup spent some amount of time considering whether structs (which were inherited from C) should be granted the ability to have member functions. Upon consideration, he determined that they should, in part to have a unified ruleset for both. ***So although we wrote the  above programs using the class keyword, we could have used the struct keyword instead***.

Many developers (including myself) feel this was the incorrect decision to be made, as it can lead to dangerous assumptions. For  example, it’s fair to assume a class will clean up after itself (e.g. a class that allocates memory will deallocate it before being destroyed), but it’s not safe to assume a struct will.

- ***Consequently, we recommend using the struct keyword for data-only structures, and the class keyword for defining objects that require both data and functions to be bundled together***.
- 구조체를 클래스 대신 사용 할 수 있음. 하지만 구조체는 종료되면 메모리 회수를 하지 않기 때문에 구조체를 클래스 대용으로 쓰는건 권장 되지 않음.
- 그리고 구조체는 default member가 public인데 클래스는 private임

## 8.5 Constructors

If all members are public, we can use aggregate initialize

```c++
class Foo {
    public:
    	int m_x;
   		int m_y;
};

int main(){
    Foo foo1 = {4, 5};
    Foo foo2 {6, 7};
    
    return 0;
}
```

However, when there is a private member then it is not possible.

- We have to use constructor

### Default class

```c++
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
	
class Date
{
private:
    // Note: No initializations at member declarations
    int m_year;
    int m_month;
    int m_day;
 
public:
    // Explicitly defaulted constructor
    Date() = default;
};
 
class Date2
{
private:
    // Note: No initializations at member declarations
    int m_year;
    int m_month;
    int m_day;
 
public:
    // Empty user-provided constructor
    Date2() {};
};
 
int main()
{
    Date today{}; // today is 0, 0, 0
    Date2 tomorrow{}; // tomorrows's members are uninitialized
 
    return 0;
}
```

### Classes containing classes

```c++
#include <iostream>
 
class A
{
public:
    A() { std::cout << "A\n"; }
};
 
class B
{
private:
    A m_a; // B contains A as a member variable
 
public:
    B() { std::cout << "B\n"; }
};
 
int main()
{
    B b;
    return 0;
}
// This prints
/*
A
B
*/
```

- When variable `b` is constructed, the `B()` constructor is called.  Before the body of the constructor executes, `m_a` is initialized, calling the `class A` default constructor.  This prints “A”.  Then control returns back to the `B` constructor, and the body of the B constructor executes.
  - The difference to the last example in the previous section is that `m_a` is a `class`-type. ***`class`-type members get initialized even if we don’t explicitly initialize them***.

## 8.5a Member initializer (list)

```c++
class Something {
    private:
    	const int m_value;
    
    public:
    	Something(): m_value{5} {}
}
```

- Member initializer list is possible to initialize const variable

## 8.6 Overlapping and delegating constructors

### Delegating constructors

```c++
class Foo {
    private:
    public:
    	Foo() {
            
        }
    
    	Foo(int value): Foo{} {
            
        }
}
```

## 8.7 Destructors

A **destructor** is another special kind of class member  function that is executed when an object of that class is destroyed.  Whereas constructors are designed to initialize a class, ***destructors are designed to help clean up***.

- For simple classes (those that just initialize the values of normal member variables), a destructor is not needed because C++ will  automatically clean up the memory for you.
- However, if your class object is holding any resources (e.g. dynamic memory, or a file or database handle), or if you need to do any kind of maintenance before the object is destroyed, the destructor is the perfect place to do so, as it is typically the last thing to happen  before the object is destroyed.

### Destructor naming

Like constructors, destructors have specific naming rules:

- The destructor must have the same name as the class, preceded by a tilde (~).
- The destructor can not take arguments.
- The destructor has no return type.

### Constructor and destructor timing

As mentioned previously, the constructor is called when an object is created, and the destructor is called when an object is destroyed.

## 8.8 The hidden "this" pointer

### Chaining member functions

```c++
#include <iostream>

class Calc
{
private:
    int m_value;
 
public:
    Calc() { m_value = 0; }
 
    Calc& add(int value) { m_value += value; return *this; }
    Calc& sub(int value) { m_value -= value; return *this; }
    Calc& mult(int value) { m_value *= value; return *this; }
 
    int getValue() { return m_value; }
};

int main()
{
    Calc calc;
    calc.add(5).sub(3).mult(4);
 
    std::cout << calc.getValue() << '\n';
    return 0;
}

```

## 8.9 Class code and header files

헤더파일과 구현체 분리 하면 컴파일을 전부 다시 할 필요 없음.

- 만약 헤더 파일에 구현하면 헤더 파일이 수정 되면 헤더를 포함하는 모든 오브젝트 파일을 다시 컴파일 해야함
- 하지만 구현제와 분리 할 경우 오브젝트 파일만 다시 만들면 됨?
  - 만약 cpp파일만 수정하면 cpp파일만 다시 컴파일 하면 됨

### Default parameters

- ***Default parameters for member functions should be declared in the class definition (in the header file)***, where they can be seen by whomever #includes the header.

## 8.10 Const class object and member functions

Const class objects can only explicitly call *const* member functions, and getValue() has not been marked as a const member function.

- A **const member function** is a member function that guarantees it will not modify the object or call any non-const member functions (as they may modify the object).
- To make getValue() a const member function, we simply append the const  keyword to the function prototype, after the parameter list, but before  the function body:

```c++
class Somthing {
    public:
    int m_value;
    
    Something(): m_value{0} {}
    void resetValue() {m_value = 0;}
    
    int getValue() const { return m_value; }
}
```

- const keyword to the function prototype means it will not modify contents

### Const references

Although instantiating const class objects is one way to create const objects, a more common way is by passing an object to a function by const reference.

- Passing a class argument by value causes a copy of the class to be made (which is slow) -- most of the time, we don’t need a copy, a reference to the original argument works just fine, and is more performant because it avoids the needless copy.
- We typically make the reference const in order to ensure the function does not inadvertently change the argument, and to allow the function to work with R-values (e.g. literals), which can be passed as const references, but not non-const references.

## 8.10, 8.11 Static member variable and functions

```c++
class Something {
    public:
    static int s_value;
};

int Something::s_value{1};

int main() {
    Something first;
    Something second;
    
    first.s_value = 2;
    
    std::cout << first.s_value << '\n';
    std::cout << second.s_value << '\n';
    
    return 0;
}

// Output
/*
2
2
*/
```

- ***Because s_value is a static member variable, s_value is shared between all objects of the class***.
- Much like global variables, they are created when the program starts, and destroyed when the program ends.
- 클래스 안에 static 멤버가 있으면 같은 클래스로 생성된 오브젝트들은 그 멤버를 공유 함

### Static member functions have no *this pointer

```c++
class Something
{
private:
    static int s_value;
public:
    static int getValue() { return s_value; } // static member function
};
 
int Something::s_value{ 1 }; // initializer
 
int main()
{
    std::cout << Something::getValue() << '\n';
}
```

Static member functions have two interesting quirks worth noting.

- First, because static member functions are not attached to an object, they have no *this* pointer! This makes sense when you think about it -- the *this* pointer always points to the object that the member function is working on. Static member functions do not work on an object, so the *this* pointer is not needed.
- Second, static member functions can directly access other static members (variables or functions), but not non-static members. This is because non-static members must belong to a class object, and static member functions have no class object to work with!

## 8.13 Friend functions and classes

You may occasionally find situations where you will find you have classes and functions outside of those classes that need to work very closely together.

- For example, you might have a class that stores data, and a function (or another class) that displays the data on the screen. Although the storage class and display code have been separated for easier maintenance, the display code is really intimately tied to the details of the storage class. Consequently, there isn’t much to gain by hiding the storage classes details from the display code.
  - Using friend classes and friend functions, you can give your display code access to the private details of the storage class.
  - This lets the display code directly access all the private members and functions of the storage class, while keeping everyone else out! In this lesson,  we’ll take a closer look at how this is done.

### Friend functions

A **friend function** is a function that can access the private members of a class as though it were a member of that class.  

- To declare a friend function, simply use the *friend* keyword  in front of the prototype of the function you wish to be a friend of the class.
- It does not matter whether you declare the friend function in the private or public section of the class.

friend로 선언된 함수에게 모든 프라이빗 멤버를 알리지 않아도 됨. 만약 friend없이 public으로 클래스 안에 정의 할 경우, 해당 함수는 모든 멤버 변수에 접근 권한을 가지게 됨.

