# Ch12 Virtual Functions

## 12.2 Virtual functions and polymorphism

### Virtual function and polymorphism

```c++
#include <iostream>
#include <string_view>
 
class Base
{
public:
    virtual std::string_view getName() const { return "Base"; } // note addition of virtual keyword
};
 
class Derived: public Base
{
public:
    virtual std::string_view getName() const { return "Derived"; }
};
 
int main()
{
    Derived derived;
    Base &rBase{ derived };
    std::cout << "rBase is a " << rBase.getName() << '\n';
 
    return 0;
}
// Output
// rBase is a Derived
```

### Use of the virtual keyword

***If a function is marked as virtual, all matching overrides are also considered virtual***, even if they are not explicitly marked as such. However, having the keyword virtual on the derived functions does not hurt, and it serves as a useful reminder that the function is a virtual  function rather than a normal one. Consequently, it’s generally a good idea to use the virtual keyword for virtualized functions in derived classes even though it’s not strictly necessary.

### Do not call virtual functions from constructors or destructors

Remember that when a Derived class is created, the Base portion is  constructed first.  If you were to call a virtual function from the Base constructor, and Derived portion of the class hadn’t even been created  yet, it would be unable to call the Derived version of the function  because there’s no Derived object for the Derived function to work on.   In C++, it will call the Base version instead.

### The downside of virtual functions

Since most of the time you’ll want your functions to be virtual, why not just make all functions virtual? The answer is because ***it’s inefficient -- resolving a virtual function call takes longer than resolving a regular one***. Furthermore, the compiler also has to allocate an extra pointer for each class object that has one or more virtual functions.

## 12.2a The override and final specifiers, and covariant return types

To address some common challenges with inheritance, C++11 added two  special identifiers to C++: override and final.  Note that these  identifiers are not considered keywords -- they are normal identifiers  that have special meaning in certain contexts.

- The override specifier can be applied to any override function by placing the specifier in the same place const would go. If the function does not override a base class function (or is applied to a non-virtual function), the compiler will flag the function as an error.

```c++
class A
{
public:
	virtual const char* getName1(int x) { return "A"; }
	virtual const char* getName2(int x) { return "A"; }
	virtual const char* getName3(int x) { return "A"; }
};
 
class B : public A
{
public:
	virtual const char* getName1(short int x) override { return "B"; } // compile error, function is not an override
	virtual const char* getName2(int x) const override { return "B"; } // compile error, function is not an override
	virtual const char* getName3(int x) override { return "B"; } // okay, function is an override of A::getName3(int)
 
};
 
int main()
{
	return 0;
}
```

- There is no performance penalty for using the override specifier, and it helps avoid inadvertent errors. Consequently, we highly recommend using it for every virtual function override you write to ensure you’ve actually overridden the function you think you have.

### The final specifier

- There may be cases where you don’t want someone to be able to ***override*** a virtual function, or ***inherit*** from a class.  The final specifier can be used to tell the compiler to enforce this. 

## 12.3 Virtual destructors, virtual assignment, and overriding virtualization

### Virtual destructors

Although C++ provides a default destructor for your classes if you do not provide one yourself, it is sometimes the case that you will want to provide your own destructor (particularly if the class needs to deallocate memory). You should **always** make your destructors virtual if you’re dealing with inheritance. 

```c++
#include <iostream>
class Base
{
public:
    ~Base() // note: not virtual
    {
        std::cout << "Calling ~Base()\n";
    }
};
 
class Derived: public Base
{
private:
    int* m_array;
 
public:
    Derived(int length)
      : m_array{ new int[length] }
    {
    }
 
    ~Derived() // note: not virtual (your compiler may warn you about this)
    {
        std::cout << "Calling ~Derived()\n";
        delete[] m_array;
    }
};
 
int main()
{
    Derived *derived { new Derived(5) };
    Base *base { derived };
 
    delete base;
 
    return 0;
}

// Output
// Calling ~Base()
```

- ***Rule: Whenever you are dealing with inheritance, you should make any explicit destructors virtual.***

```c++
#include <iostream>
class Base
{
public:
    virtual ~Base() // note: virtual
    {
        std::cout << "Calling ~Base()\n";
    }
};
 
class Derived: public Base
{
private:
    int* m_array;
 
public:
    Derived(int length)
      : m_array{ new int[length] }
    {
    }
 
    virtual ~Derived() // note: virtual
    {
        std::cout << "Calling ~Derived()\n";
        delete[] m_array;
    }
};
 
int main()
{
    Derived *derived { new Derived(5) };
    Base *base { derived };
 
    delete base;
 
    return 0;
}
// Output
/*
Calling ~Derived()
Calling ~Base()
*/
```

## 12.4 Early binding and late binding

**Binding** refers to the process that is used to convert identifiers (such as variable and function names) into addresses.   Although binding is used for both variables and functions, in this lesson we’re going to focus on function binding.

### Early binding

Most of the function calls the compiler encounters will be direct function calls. A direct function call is a statement that directly calls a function.

- **Early binding** (also called static binding) means the compiler (or linker) is able to directly associate the identifier name (such as a function or variable name) with a machine address.  

### Late binding

In some programs, it is not possible to know which function will be called until runtime (when the program is run).  This is known as **late binding** (or dynamic binding).

- In C++, one way to get late binding is to use function pointers.  

## 12.6 Pure virtual functions, abstract base classes, and interface classes

### Pure virtual (abstract) functions and abstract base classes

C++ allows you to create a special kind of virtual function called a **pure virtual function** (or **abstract function**) that has no body at all.

- When we add a pure virtual function to our class, we are effectively saying, “it is up to the derived classes to implement this function”.

Using a pure virtual function has two main consequences:

- First, any class with one or more pure virtual functions becomes an **abstract base class**, which means that it can not be instantiated! 
- Second, any derived class must define a body for this function, or that derived class will be considered an abstract base class as well.

```c++
class Base
{
public:
    const char* sayHi() const { return "Hi"; } // a normal non-virtual function    
 
    virtual const char* getName() const { return "Base"; } // a normal virtual function
 
    virtual int getValue() const = 0; // a pure virtual function
 
    int doSomething() = 0; // Compile error: can not set non-virtual functions to 0
};
```

## 12.7 Virtual base classes

### Virtual base classes

To share a base class, simply insert the “virtual” keyword in the inheritance list of the derived class. This creates what is called a **virtual base class**, which means there is only one base object. The base object is shared between all objects in the inheritance tree and it is only constructed once. Here is an example (without constructors for simplicity) showing  how to use the virtual keyword to create a shared base class:

```c++
class PoweredDevice
{
};
 
class Scanner: virtual public PoweredDevice
{
};
 
class Printer: virtual public PoweredDevice
{
};
 
class Copier: public Scanner, public Printer
{
};
```

- However, this leads to one more problem: if Scanner and Printer share a  PoweredDevice base class, who is responsible for creating it?  The  answer, as it turns out, is Copier.  

## 

