# Ch01

## 1.1 Statements and the structure of a program

### Statements

A ***statement*** is a type of instruction that causes the program to *perform some action*.

### Functions and the main function

 A ***function*** is a collection of statements that executes sequentially.

### Quiz

1. What is a statement?

- Type of instruction that cause the program to perform some action.

2. What is a function?

- Collection of statements that executes sequentially.

## 1.3 Introduction to variables

In C++, direct memory access is not allowed. Instead, ***we access memory indirectly through an object***.

- An object is a region of storage (usually memory) that has a value and other associated properties.
- When an object is defined, the compiler automatically determines where the object will be placed in memory.
- As a result, rather than say *go get the value stored in mailbox number 7532*, we can say, *go get the value stored by this object* and the compiler knows where in memory to look for that value. This means we can focus on using objects to store and retrieve values, and not have to worry about where in memory they’re actually being placed.

Objects can be named or unnamed (anonymous). A named object is called a **variable**, and the name of the object is called an **identifier**. In our programs, most of the objects we create will be variables.

- Identifier : Name of variable

오브젝트란? 메모리에 접근 할 수 있게 해주는 것.

When the program is run (called runtime), the variable will be instantiated. ***Instantiation is a fancy word that means the object will be created and assigned a memory address***.

- An instantiated object is sometimes also called an instance.

#### Quiz

1. What is a data?
   - Any sequence of symbol
2. What is a value?
   - Single piece of data stored in memory
3. What is a variable?
   - ***Named region of memory***

## 1.4 Variable assignment and initialization

### Direct initialization

```c++
int width(5);
```

- Prior to C++11, direct initialization was recommended over copy initialization in most cases because of the performance boost.

Unfortunately, parenthesis-based direct initialization can’t be used for all types of initialization (such as initializing an object with a list of data).

- 함수와 구분이 안가는 경우도 있어서 항상 위 방식대로 initialization 할 수 없음
- In an attempt to provide a more consistent initialization mechanism, C++11 added a new syntax called brace initialization (also sometimes called uniform initialization) that uses curly braces.

```c++
// Case 1.(Preferred)
int width{5};
// Case 2.
int width = {5};
// Initialize to 0
int width{} 
```

## 1.6 Uninitialized variables and undefined behavior

- Initialization = The object is given a known value at the point of definition.
- Assignment = The object is given a known value beyond the point of definition.
- Uninitialized = The object has not been given a known value yet.

## 1.7 Keywords and naming identifiers

### Identifier naming rules

As a reminder, the name of a variable (or function, type, or other  kind of item) is called an identifier. C++ gives you a lot of flexibility to name identifiers as you wish. However, there are a few rules that must be followed when naming identifiers:

- The identifier can not be a keyword. Keywords are reserved.
- The identifier can only be composed of letters (lower or upper case), numbers, and the underscore character. That means the name can not contain symbols (except the underscore) nor whitespace (spaces or tabs).
- The identifier must begin with a letter (lower or upper case) or an underscore. It can not start with a number.
- C++ is case sensitive, and thus distinguishes between lower and upper case letters. `nvalue` is different than `nValue` is different than `NVALUE`.

 A literal (also known as a literal constant) is a fixed value that has been inserted directly into the source code.