# Ch10 An introduction to object relationships

## 10.2 Composition(Part-of)

To qualify as a **composition**, an object and a part must have the following relationship:

- The part (member) is part of the object (class)
- The part (member) can ***only belong to one object*** (class) at a time
- The part (member) has ***its existence managed by the object*** (class)
- The part (member) does not know about the existence of the object (class)

Composition relationships are part-whole relationships where the part must constitute part of the whole object. 

- For example, a heart is a part of a person’s body.
- The part in a composition can only be part of one object at a time. A heart that is part of one person’s body can not be part of someone else’s body at the same time.
- In a composition relationship, the object is responsible for the existence of the parts.
- Most often, this means the part is created when the object is created, and destroyed when the object is destroyed.  But more broadly, it means the object manages the part’s lifetime in such a way that the user of the object does not need to get involved. 
- For example, when a body is created, the heart is created too.  When a person’s body is destroyed, their heart is destroyed too.  

### Composition and subclasses

One question that new programmers often ask when it comes to object  composition is, “When should I use a subclass instead of direct implementation of a feature?”. For example, instead of using the Point2D class to implement the Creature’s location, we could have instead just added 2 integers to the Creature class and written code in the Creature class to handle the positioning. However, making Point2D  its own class has a number of benefits:

1. ***Each individual class can be kept relatively simple and straightforward, focused on performing one task well***. This makes those classes easier to write and much easier to understand, as they are more  focused. For example, Point2D only worries about point-related stuff, which helps keep it simple.
2. ***Each subclass can be self-contained, which makes them reusable***. For example, we could reuse our Point2D class in a completely different application. Or if our creature ever needed another point (for example, a destination it was trying to get to), we can simply add another Point2D member variable.
3. ***The parent class can have the subclasses do most of the hard work, and instead focus on coordinating the data flow between the subclasses***. This helps lower the overall complexity of the parent object, because it can delegate tasks to its children, who already know how to do those tasks.  For example, when we move our Creature, it delegates that task to the Point class, which already understands how to set a point. Thus, the Creature class does not have to worry about how such things would be implemented.

A good rule of thumb is that each class should be built to accomplish a single task. That task should either be the storage and manipulation of some kind of data (e.g. Point2D, std::string), OR the coordination  of subclasses (e.g. Creature).  Ideally not both. 

## 10.3 Aggregation(Has-a)

we’ll take a look at the other subtype of object composition, called aggregation.

To qualify as an **aggregation**, a whole object and its parts must have the following relationship:

- The part (member) is part of the object (class)
- The part (member) can ***belong to more than one object*** (class) at a time
- The part (member) does ***not have its existence managed by the object*** (class)
- The part (member) does not know about the existence of the object (class)

***Unlike a composition, parts can belong to more than one object at a time, and the whole object is not responsible for the existence and lifespan of the parts***.

- When an aggregation is created, the aggregation is not responsible for creating the parts.
- ***When an aggregation is  destroyed, the aggregation is not responsible for destroying the parts***.

컴포지션은 오브젝트에 종속 됨. 따라서 오브젝트가 사라지면 컴포지션도 같이 사라짐. 하지만 어그리게이션은 여러 오브젝트에 종속 될 수 있고, 오브젝트가 사라져도 사라지지 않음.

- 예를 들어 자동차의 엔진은 어느 자동차에도 적용 될 수 있음.

In an aggregation, we also add parts as member variables. However, these member variables are typically either references or pointers that are used to point at objects that have been created outside the scope of the class.  Consequently, an aggregation usually either takes the objects it is going to point to as constructor parameters, or it begins empty and the subobjects are added later via access functions or operators.

- Because these parts exist outside of the scope of the class, when the  class is destroyed, the pointer or reference member variable will be destroyed (but not deleted). ***Consequently, the parts themselves will still exist***.
- 예를 들어 B가 A를 호출해서 사용하다가 B가 사라져도 A는 남아있는 경우
  - B has A

### Summarizing composition and aggregation

Compositions:

- ***Typically use normal member variables***
- Can use pointer members if the class handles object allocation/deallocation itself
- Responsible for creation/destruction of parts

Aggregations:

- ***Typically use pointer or reference members*** that point to or reference objects that live outside the scope of the aggregate class
- Not responsible for creating/destroying parts

## 10.4 Association(Use-a)

### Association

To qualify as an **association**, an object and another object must have the following relationship:

- The associated object (member) is otherwise unrelated to the object (class)
- The associated object (member) can belong to more than one object (class) at a time
- The associated object (member) does *not* have its existence managed by the object (class)
- The associated object (member) may or may not know about the existence of the object (class)

The relationship between doctors and patients is a great example of an association. The doctor clearly has a relationship with his patients, but conceptually it’s not a part/whole (object composition) relationship. A doctor can see many patients in a day, and a patient can see many doctors (perhaps they want a second opinion, or they are visiting different types of doctors). ***Neither of the object’s lifespans are tied to the other***.

- We can say that association models as “uses-a” relationship.

## 10.5 Dependencies

### Dependencies vs Association in c++

- In C++, ***associations are a relationship between two classes at the class level***. That is, one class keeps a direct or indirect “link” to  the associated class as a member.
- ***Dependencies typically are not represented at the class level*** -- that is, the object being depended on is not linked as a member.  Rather,  the object being depended on is typically instantiated as needed (like  opening a file to write data to), or passed into a function as a  parameter (like std::ostream in the overloaded operator<< above).